# New Potions
This component will generate new _potions_ that copy the effects of existing spells. There are _many_ new potions for crafting.
This component does not add any such items to in-game stores (yet?).



### Disclaimer
This component contains artwork that was generated by a Large Language Model AI. All the generated artwork is contained within this repo. It can be viewed
[here](https://github.com/BardezAnAvatar/BGEE-Caster-Crafting/tree/main/.assets/potions). I took the generated artwork, picked ones that I felt
looked half-decent, and touched up the images. Afterward, I went through an extensive process of recoloring the images and cropping and fitting them,
then scaling them down to 64x64 pixel resolution for in-game usage. I'd also like to point out that this effort is (noncommercial) open-source, so I will
gladly let others consume the output in mods (preferably for other games). But it does use AI, some people have feelings about that, and people may
appreciate knowing this.



## What does this do?
This component installs a bunch of new potion items. It will add 95+, depending on the game. These potions will not appear in loot tables or dungeons
but are craftable by the player party (if the player so chooses). They can be added via CLUA console as well, of course, but since these are mostly
dynamic, their naming may leave a bit to be desired.



## How do I craft them?
These are crafted based off of _memorized_ spells, using "recipes" to define which spells can yield which potions. Buy a crafting station from a spell
shop and start crafting.



## Costs for new potions
For potions, I decided to go with a tiered cost approach. Basically, there are 2 tiers per spell level, and each potion is assigned a tier which
abstractly represents their complexity and cost. The more complex or benefitial a potion, the more it will cost. Also, some spells when made into a
potions seem to be _way_ better than just as a caster (for example: stoneskin for a Fighter); the tier gets bumped for some of those potions.

Costs for each potion tier are as follows:

| Tier | Hours | Gold  |
| ---- | ----- | ----- |
|   1  |    2  |    50 |
|   2  |    4  |   100 |
|   3  |    6  |   200 |
|   4  |    8  |   300 |
|   5  |   10  |   400 |
|   6  |   12  |   600 |
|   7  |   24  |   750 |
|   8  |   48  |  1000 |
|   9  |   72  |  1500 |
|  10  |   96  |  2000 |
|  11  |  132  |  2500 |
|  12  |  144  |  3000 |
|  13  |  156  |  4000 |
|  14  |  168  |  5000 |
|  15  |  180  |  6000 |
|  16  |  192  |  7500 |
|  17  |  204  | 10000 |
|  18  |  216  | 20000 |
|  19  |  228  | 30000 |
|  20  |  240  | 40000 |
